.\"Ruby is copyrighted by Yukihiro Matsumoto <matz@netlab.jp>.
.Dd August 11, 2019
.Dt IRB \&1 "Ruby Programmer's Reference Guide"
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm irb
.Nd Interactive Ruby Shell
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl dfUw
.Op Fl I Ar directory
.Op Fl r Ar library
.Op Fl E Ar external Ns Op : Ns Ar internal
.Op Fl W Ns Op Ar level
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns inspect
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns multiline
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns singleline
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns echo
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns colorize
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns autocomplete
.Op Fl - Ns Oo no Oc Ns verbose
.Op Fl -prompt Ar mode
.Op Fl -prompt-mode Ar mode
.Op Fl -inf-ruby-mode
.Op Fl -simple-prompt
.Op Fl -noprompt
.Op Fl -tracer
.Op Fl -back-trace-limit Ar n
.Op Fl -
.Op program_file
.Op argument ...
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the REPL(read-eval-print loop) environment for Ruby programs.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "1234567890123" -compact
.Pp
.It Fl -version
Prints the version of
.Nm .
.Pp
.It Fl E Ar external Ns Op : Ns Ar internal
.It Fl -encoding Ar external Ns Op : Ns Ar internal
Same as `ruby -E' .
Specifies the default value(s) for external encodings and internal encoding. Values should be separated with colon (:).
.Pp
You can omit the one for internal encodings, then the value
.Pf ( Li "Encoding.default_internal" ) will be nil.
.Pp
.It Fl I Ar path
Same as `ruby -I' .
Specifies
.Li $LOAD_PATH
directory
.Pp
.It Fl U
Same as `ruby -U' .
Sets the default value for internal encodings
.Pf ( Li "Encoding.default_internal" ) to UTF-8.
.Pp
.It Fl d
Same as `ruby -d' .
Sets
.Li $DEBUG
to true.
.Pp
.It Fl f
Suppresses read of
.Pa ~/.irbrc .
.Pp
.It Fl w
Same as `ruby -w' .
.Pp
.Pp
.It Fl W
Same as `ruby -W' .
.Pp
.It Fl h
.It Fl -help
Prints a summary of the options.
.Pp
.It Fl r Ar library
Same as `ruby -r'.
Causes irb to load the library using require.
.Pp
.It Fl -inspect
Uses `inspect' for output (default except for bc mode)
.Pp
.It Fl -noinspect
Doesn't use inspect for output
.Pp
.It Fl -multiline
Uses multiline editor module.
.Pp
.It Fl -nomultiline
Doesn't use multiline editor module.
.Pp
.It Fl -singleline
Uses singleline editor module.
.Pp
.It Fl -nosingleline
Doesn't use singleline editor module.
.Pp
.Pp
.It Fl -extra-doc-dir
Add an extra doc dir for the doc dialog.
.Pp
.Pp
.It Fl -echo
Show result (default).
.Pp
.It Fl -noecho
Don't show result.
.Pp
.Pp
.It Fl -echo-on-assignment
Show result on assignment.
.Pp
.It Fl -noecho-on-assignment
Don't show result on assignment.
.Pp
.It Fl -truncate-echo-on-assignment
Show truncated result on assignment (default).
.Pp
.Pp
.It Fl -colorize
Use colorization.
.Pp
.It Fl -nocolorize
Don't use colorization.
.Pp
.Pp
.It Fl -autocomplete
Use autocompletion.
.Pp
.It Fl -noautocomplete
Don't use autocompletion.
.Pp
.Pp
.It Fl -regexp-completor
Use regexp based completion.
.Pp
.It Fl -type-completor
Use type based completion.
.Pp
.Pp
.It Fl -verbose
Show details.
.Pp
.It Fl -noverbose
Don't show details.
.Pp
.It Fl -prompt Ar mode
.It Fl -prompt-mode Ar mode
Switch prompt mode. Pre-defined prompt modes are
`default', `simple', `xmp' and `inf-ruby'.
.Pp
.It Fl -inf-ruby-mode
Uses prompt appropriate for inf-ruby-mode on emacs.
Suppresses --multiline and --singleline.
.Pp
.It Fl -simple-prompt
Makes prompts simple.
.Pp
.It Fl -noprompt
No prompt mode.
.Pp
.It Fl -tracer
Displays trace for each execution of commands.
.Pp
.It Fl -back-trace-limit Ar n
Displays backtrace top
.Ar n
and tail
.Ar n Ns .
The default value is 16.
.El
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -compact -width "IRB_USE_AUTOCOMPLETE"
.It Ev IRB_LANG
The locale used for
.Nm .
.Pp
.It Ev IRBRC
The path to the personal initialization file.
.Pp
.It Ev XDG_CONFIG_HOME
.Nm
respects XDG_CONFIG_HOME. If it is set and
.Ev IRBRC
is unset, load
.Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/irb/irbrc
as a personal initialization file.
.Pp
.It Ev RI_PAGER
The command specified would be used as a pager.
.Pp
.It Ev PAGER
The command specified would be used as a pager if
.Ev RI_PAGER
is unset.
.Pp
.It Ev VISUAL
Its value would be used to open files by the edit command.
.Pp
.It Ev EDITOR
Its value would be used to open files by the edit command if
.Ev VISUAL
is unset.
.Pp
.It Ev NO_COLOR
Assigning a value to it disables colorization.
.Pp
.It Ev IRB_USE_AUTOCOMPLETE
Assigning
.Sy false
to it disables autocompletion.
.Pp
.It Ev IRB_COMPLETOR
Autocompletion behavior. Allowed values are
.Sy regexp
or
.Sy type
.
.Pp
.It Ev IRB_COPY_COMMAND
Overrides the default program used to interface with the system clipboard.
.El
.Pp
Also
.Nm
depends on same variables as
.Xr ruby 1 .
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -compact
.It Pa ~/.irbrc
Personal irb initialization. If
.Ev IRBRC
is set, read
.Pa $IRBRC
instead. If
.Ev IRBRC
is not set and
.Ev XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is set,
.Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/irb/irbrc
is loaded.
.Pp
.El
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl % irb
.Dl irb(main):001:0> Ic 1 + 1
.Dl 2
.Dl irb(main):002:0> Ic def t(x)
.Dl irb(main):003:1> Ic   x + 1
.Dl irb(main):004:1> Ic end
.Dl => :t
.Dl irb(main):005:0> Ic t(3)
.Dl => 4
.Dl irb(main):006:0> Ic if t(3) == 4
.Dl irb(main):007:1> Ic p :ok
.Dl irb(main):008:1> Ic end
.Dl :ok
.Dl => :ok
.Dl irb(main):009:0> Ic quit
.Dl %
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ruby 1 .
.Pp
.Sh REPORTING BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
Security vulnerabilities should be reported via an email to
.Mt security@ruby-lang.org .
Reported problems will be published after being fixed.
.Pp
.It
Other bugs and feature requests can be reported via the
Ruby Issue Tracking System
.Pq Lk https://bugs.ruby-lang.org/ .
Do not report security vulnerabilities
via this system because it publishes the vulnerabilities immediately.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by Keiju ISHITSUKA.
