.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH RAKE 1 "August 27, 2014" "rake 10.3.2" "Rake User Commands"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
rake \- a make-like build utility for Ruby 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrake\fR [\fI\-f rakefile\fR] {\fIOPTIONS\fR} \fITARGETS...\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rake
is a make-like build utility for Ruby. Tasks and dependencies are specified in
standard Ruby syntax.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-multitask\fR
Treat all tasks as multitasks.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-build\-all\fR
Build all prerequisites, including those which are up\-to\-date.

.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR [\fINUMBER\fR]
Specifies the maximum number of tasks to execute in parallel (default is number of CPU cores + 4).

.SS Modules
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-libdir\fR \fILIBDIR\fR
Include \fILIBDIR\fR in the search path for required modules.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-require\fR \fIMODULE\fR
Require \fIMODULE\fR before executing rakefile.

.SS Rakefile location
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-rakefile\fR [\fIFILENAME\fR]
Use \fIFILENAME\fR as the rakefile to search for.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-no\-search\fR, \fB\-\-nosearch\fR
Do not search parent directories for the Rakefile.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-no\-system\fR, \fB\-\-nosystem\fR
Use standard project Rakefile search paths, ignore system wide rakefiles.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-rakelibdir\fR \fIRAKELIBDIR\fR
Auto\-import any .rake files in \fIRAKELIBDIR\fR (default is 'rakelib')
.HP
\fB\-\-rakelib\fR
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-system\fR
Using system wide (global) rakefiles (usually '\fI~/.rake/*.rake\fR').

.SS Debugging
.TP
\fB\-\-backtrace\fR=\fI\,[OUT]\/\fR
Enable full backtrace.  \fIOUT\fR can be stderr (default) or stdout.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-trace\fR=\fI\,[OUT]\/\fR
Turn on invoke/execute tracing, enable full backtrace. \fIOUT\fR can be stderr (default) or stdout.
.TP
\fB\-\-suppress\-backtrace\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Suppress backtrace lines matching regexp \fIPATTERN\fR. Ignored if \fI\-\-trace\fR is on.
.TP
\fB\-\-rules\fR
Trace the rules resolution.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Do a dry run without executing actions.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-tasks\fR [\fIPATTERN\fR]
Display the tasks (matching optional \fIPATTERN\fR) with descriptions, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-describe\fR [\fIPATTERN\fR]
Describe the tasks (matching optional \fIPATTERN\fR), then exit.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-where\fR [\fIPATTERN\fR]
Describe the tasks (matching optional \fIPATTERN\fR), then exit.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-prereqs\fR
Display the tasks and dependencies, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-execute\fR \fICODE\fR
Execute some Ruby code and exit.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-execute\-print\fR \fICODE\fR
Execute some Ruby code, print the result, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-execute\-continue\fR \fICODE\fR
Execute some Ruby code, then continue with normal task processing.

.SS Information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Log message to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Do not log messages to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Like \fB\-\-quiet\fR, but also suppresses the 'in directory' announcement.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR, \fB\-\-no\-deprecation\-warnings\fR
Disable the deprecation warnings.
.TP
\fB\-\-comments\fR
Show commented tasks only
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Show all tasks, even uncommented ones (in combination with \fB\-T\fR or \fB\-D\fR)
.TP
\fB\-\-job\-stats\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Display job statistics. \fILEVEL=history\fR displays a complete job list
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display the program version.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a help message.

.SH SEE ALSO
The complete documentation for \fBrake\fR has been installed at \fI/usr/share/doc/rake-doc/html/index.html\fR. It is also available online at \fIhttp://docs.seattlerb.org/rake\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
.B rake
was written by Jim Weirich <jim@weirichhouse.org> 
.PP
This manual was created by Caitlin Matos <caitlin.matos@zoho.com> for the Debian project (but may be used by others). It was inspired by the manual by Jani Monoses <jani@iv.ro> for the Ubuntu project.
