.\"Ruby is copyrighted by Yukihiro Matsumoto <matz@netlab.jp>.
.Dd April 20, 2017
.Dt RI \&1 "Ruby Programmer's Reference Guide"
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm ri
.Nd Ruby API reference front end
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl ahilTv
.Op Fl d Ar DIRNAME
.Op Fl f Ar FORMAT
.Op Fl w Ar WIDTH
.Op Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm pager
.Op Fl -server Ns Oo = Ns Ar PORT Oc
.Op Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm list-doc-dirs
.Op Fl -no-standard-docs
.Op Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Bro Cm system Ns | Ns Cm site Ns | Ns Cm gems Ns | Ns Cm home Brc
.Op Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm profile
.Op Fl -dump Ns = Ns Ar CACHE
.Op Ar name ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command-line front end for the Ruby API reference.
You can search and read the API reference for classes and methods with
.Nm .
.Pp
.Nm
is a part of Ruby.
.Pp
.Ar name
can be:
.Bl -diag -offset indent
.It Class | Module | Module::Class
.Pp
.It Class::method | Class#method | Class.method | method
.Pp
.It gem_name: | gem_name:README | gem_name:History
.El
.Pp
All class names may be abbreviated to their minimum unambiguous form.
If a name is ambiguous, all valid options will be listed.
.Pp
A
.Ql \&.
matches either class or instance methods, while #method
matches only instance and ::method matches only class methods.
.Pp
README and other files may be displayed by prefixing them with the gem name
they're contained in.  If the gem name is followed by a
.Ql \&:
all files in the gem will be shown.
The file name extension may be omitted where it is unambiguous.
.Pp
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ri Fil
ri File
ri File.new
ri zip
ri rdoc:README
.Ed
.Pp
Note that shell quoting or escaping may be required for method names
containing punctuation:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ri 'Array.[]'
ri compact\e!
.Ed
.Pp
To see the default directories
.Nm
will search, run:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ri --list-doc-dirs
.Ed
.Pp
Specifying the
.Fl -system , Fl -site , Fl -home , Fl -gems ,
or
.Fl -doc-dir
options will limit
.Nm
to searching only the specified directories.
.Pp
.Nm
options may be set in the
.Ev RI
environment variable.
.Pp
The
.Nm
pager can be set with the
.Ev RI_PAGER
environment variable or the
.Ev PAGER
environment variable.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "1234567890123" -compact
.Pp
.It Fl i
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm interactive
In interactive mode you can repeatedly
look up methods with autocomplete.
.Pp
.It Fl a
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm all
Show all documentation for a class or module.
.Pp
.It Fl l
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm list
List classes
.Nm
knows about.
.Pp
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm pager
Send output to a pager,
rather than directly to stdout.
.Pp
.It Fl T
Synonym for
.Fl -no-pager .
.Pp
.It Fl w Ar WIDTH
.It Fl -width Ns = Ns Ar WIDTH
Set the width of the output.
.Pp
.It Fl -server Ns Oo = Ns Ar PORT Oc
Run RDoc server on the given port.
The default port is\~8214.
.Pp
.It Fl f Ar FORMAT
.It Fl -format Ns = Ns Ar FORMAT
Use the selected formatter.
The default formatter is
.Li bs
for paged output and
.Li ansi
otherwise.
Valid formatters are:
.Li ansi , Li bs , Li markdown , Li rdoc .
.Pp
.It Fl h
.It Fl -help
Show help and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl v
.It Fl -version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
Data source options:
.Bl -tag -width "1234567890123" -compact
.Pp
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm list-doc-dirs
List the directories from which
.Nm
will source documentation on stdout and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl d Ar DIRNAME
.It Fl -doc-dir Ns = Ns Ar DIRNAME
List of directories from which to source
documentation in addition to the standard
directories.  May be repeated.
.Pp
.It Fl -no-standard-docs
Do not include documentation from the Ruby standard library,
.Pa site_lib ,
installed gems, or
.Pa ~/.rdoc .
Use with
.Fl -doc-dir .
.Pp
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm system
Include documentation from Ruby's standard library.  Defaults to true.
.Pp
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm site
Include documentation from libraries installed in
.Pa site_lib .
Defaults to true.
.Pp
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm gems
Include documentation from RubyGems.  Defaults to true.
.Pp
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm home
Include documentation stored in
.Pa ~/.rdoc .
Defaults to true.
.El
.Pp
Debug options:
.Bl -tag -width "1234567890123" -compact
.Pp
.It Fl - Ns Oo Cm no- Oc Ns Cm profile
Run with the Ruby profiler.
.Pp
.It Fl -dump Ns = Ns Ar CACHE
Dump data from an ri cache or data file.
.El
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "USERPROFILE" -compact
.Pp
.It Ev RI
Options to prepend to those specified on the command-line.
.Pp
.It Ev RI_PAGER
.It Ev PAGER
Pager program to use for displaying.
.Pp
.It Ev HOME
.It Ev USERPROFILE
.It Ev HOMEPATH
Path to the user's home directory.
.El
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "USERPROFILE" -compact
.Pp
.It Pa ~/.rdoc
Path for ri data in the user's home directory.
.Pp
.El
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ruby 1 ,
.Xr rdoc 1 ,
.Xr gem 1
.Pp
.Sh REPORTING BUGS
.Bl -bullet
.It
Security vulnerabilities should be reported via an email to
.Mt security@ruby-lang.org .
Reported problems will be published after being fixed.
.Pp
.It
Other bugs and feature requests can be reported via the
Ruby Issue Tracking System (http://bugs.ruby-lang.org).
Do not report security vulnerabilities
via this system because it publishes the vulnerabilities immediately.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Dave Thomas Aq dave@pragmaticprogrammer.com .
