= Rake 0.9.3 Released

Rake version 0.9.3 is mainly bug fixes.

== Changes

* The rake test loader now removes arguments it has processed.  Issue #51
* Rake::TaskArguments now responds to #values_at
* RakeFileUtils.verbose_flag = nil silences output the same as 0.8.7
* Rake tests are now directory-independent
* Rake tests are no longer require flexmock
* Commands constant is no longer polluting top level namespace.
* Show only the interesting portion of the backtrace by default (James M. Lawrence).
* Added --reduce-compat option to remove backward compatible DSL hacks (James M. Lawrence).

== What is Rake

Rake is a build tool similar to the make program in many ways. But
instead of cryptic make recipes, Rake uses standard Ruby code to
declare tasks and dependencies. You have the full power of a modern
scripting language built right into your build tool.

== Availability

The easiest way to get and install rake is via RubyGems ...

  gem install rake    (you may need root/admin privileges)

Otherwise, you can get it from the more traditional places:

Home Page:: http://rake.rubyforge.org/
Download::  http://rubyforge.org/project/showfiles.php?group_id=50
GitHub::    git://github.com/jimweirich/rake.git

== Thanks

As usual, it was input from users that drove a alot of these changes. The
following people either contributed patches, made suggestions or made
otherwise helpful comments.  Thanks to ...

* James M. Lawrence (quix)
* Roger Pack
* Cezary Baginski
* Sean Scot August Moon
* R.T. Lechow
* Alex Chaffee
* James Tucker
* Matthias Lüdtke
* Santiago Pastorino

Also, bit thanks to Eric Hodel for assisting with getting this release
out the door (where "assisting" includes, but is not by any means
limited to, "pushing" me to get it done).

-- Jim Weirich
