= Rake 0.9.6 Released

Rake version 0.9.6 contains a number of fixes mainly for merging
Rake into the Ruby source tree and fixing tests.

== Changes

=== New Features (in 0.9.3)

* Multitask tasks now use a thread pool. Use -j to limit the number of
  available threads.

* Use -m to turn regular tasks into multitasks (use at your own risk).

* You can now do "Rake.add_rakelib 'dir'" in your Rakefile to
  programatically add rake task libraries.

* You can specific backtrace suppression patterns (see
  --supress-backtrace)

* Directory tasks can now take prerequisites and actions

* Use --backtrace to request a full backtrace without the task trace.

* You can say "--backtrace=stdout" and "--trace=stdout" to route trace
  output to standard output rather than standard error.

* Optional 'phony' target (enable with 'require 'rake/phony'") for
  special purpose builds.

* Task#clear now clears task comments as well as actions and
  prerequisites. Task#clear_comment will specifically target comments.

* The --all option will force -T and -D to consider all the tasks,
  with and without descriptions.

=== Bug Fixes (0.9.3)

* Semi-colons in windows rakefile paths now work.

* Improved Control-C support when invoking multiple test suites.

* egrep method now reads files in text mode (better support for
  Windows)

* Better deprecation line number reporting.

* The -W option now works with all tasks, whether they have a
  description or not.

* File globs in rake should not be sorted alphabetically, independent
  of file system and platform.

* Numerous internal improvements.

* Documentation typos and fixes.

=== Bug Fixes (0.9.4)

* Exit status with failing tests is not correctly set to non-zero.

* Simplified syntax for phony task (for older versions of RDoc).

* Stand alone FileList usage gets glob function (without loading in
  extra dependencies)

=== Bug Fixes (0.9.5)

* --trace and --backtrace no longer swallow following task names.

=== Bug Fixes (0.9.6)

* Better trace output when using a multi-threaded Rakefile.
* Arg parsing is now consistent for tasks and multitasks.
* Skip exit code test in versions of Ruby that don't support it well.

Changes for better integration with the Ruby source tree:

* Fix version literal for Ruby source tree build.
* Better loading of libraries for testing in Ruby build.
* Use the ruby version provided by Ruby's tests.

== What is Rake

Rake is a build tool similar to the make program in many ways. But
instead of cryptic make recipes, Rake uses standard Ruby code to
declare tasks and dependencies. You have the full power of a modern
scripting language built right into your build tool.

== Availability

The easiest way to get and install rake is via RubyGems ...

  gem install rake    (you may need root/admin privileges)

Otherwise, you can get it from the more traditional places:

Home Page:: http://github.com/jimweirich/rake
Download::  http://rubyforge.org/project/showfiles.php?group_id=50
GitHub::    git://github.com/jimweirich/rake.git

== Thanks

As usual, it was input from users that drove a alot of these changes. The
following people either contributed patches, made suggestions or made
otherwise helpful comments.  Thanks to ...

* Aaron Patterson
* Dylan Smith
* Jo Liss
* Jonas Pfenniger
* Kazuki Tsujimoto
* Michael Bishop
* Michael Elufimov
* NAKAMURA Usaku
* Ryan Davis
* Sam Grönblom
* Sam Phippen
* Sergio Wong
* Tay Ray Chuan
* grosser
* quix

Also, many thanks to Eric Hodel for assisting with getting this release
out the door.

-- Jim Weirich
