
  #######################################################################
  ###  The following text is the original 'license.terms' of iwidgets ###
  ###  extension.                                                     ###
  ###  Original Tcl source files are not include in this directory,   ###
  ###  because of all of them are rewritten to Ruby files.            ###
  ###  However, the image data files in the 'images' directory are    ###
  ###  quoted from iwidgets source archive.                           ###
  #######################################################################


This software is copyrighted by DSC Technologies and private individual
contributors.  The copyright holder is specifically listed in the header
of each file.  The following terms apply to all files associated with the
software unless explicitly disclaimed in individual files by private
contributors.

Copyright 1997 DSC Technologies Corporation

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and license this software and
its documentation for any purpose, and without fee or written agreement
with DSC, is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice
appears in all copies and that both the copyright notice and warranty
disclaimer below appear in supporting documentation, and that the names of
DSC Technologies Corporation or DSC Communications Corporation not be used
in advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without specific,
written prior permission.

DSC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND
DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS. IN NO EVENT SHALL DSC BE LIABLE FOR ANY
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

RESTRICTED RIGHTS: Use, duplication or disclosure by the government
is subject to the restrictions as set forth in subparagraph (c) (1) (ii)
of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software Clause as DFARS
252.227-7013 and FAR 52.227-19.
