bundle-add(1) -- Add gem to the Gemfile and run bundle install
==============================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`bundle add` <GEM_NAME> [--group=GROUP] [--version=VERSION] [--source=SOURCE]
           [--path=PATH] [--git=GIT|--github=GITHUB] [--branch=BRANCH] [--ref=REF]
           [--quiet] [--skip-install] [--strict|--optimistic]

## DESCRIPTION

Adds the named gem to the [`Gemfile(5)`][Gemfile(5)] and run `bundle install`.
`bundle install` can be avoided by using the flag `--skip-install`.

## OPTIONS

* `--version=VERSION`, `-v=VERSION`:
  Specify version requirements(s) for the added gem.

* `--group=GROUP`, `-g=GROUP`:
  Specify the group(s) for the added gem. Multiple groups should be separated by commas.

* `--source=SOURCE`, `-s=SOURCE`:
  Specify the source for the added gem.

* `--require=REQUIRE`, `-r=REQUIRE`:
  Adds require path to gem. Provide false, or a path as a string.

* `--path=PATH`:
  Specify the file system path for the added gem.

* `--git=GIT`:
  Specify the git source for the added gem.

* `--github=GITHUB`:
  Specify the github source for the added gem.

* `--branch=BRANCH`:
  Specify the git branch for the added gem.

* `--ref=REF`:
  Specify the git ref for the added gem.

* `--glob=GLOB`:
  Specify the location of a dependency's .gemspec, expanded within Ruby (single quotes recommended).

* `--quiet`:
  Do not print progress information to the standard output.

* `--skip-install`:
  Adds the gem to the Gemfile but does not install it.

* `--optimistic`:
  Adds optimistic declaration of version.

* `--strict`:
  Adds strict declaration of version.

## EXAMPLES

1. You can add the `rails` gem to the Gemfile without any version restriction.
   The source of the gem will be the global source.

   `bundle add rails`

2. You can add the `rails` gem with version greater than 1.1 (not including 1.1) and less than 3.0.

   `bundle add rails --version "> 1.1, < 3.0"`

3. You can use the `https://gems.example.com` custom source and assign the gem
   to a group.

   `bundle add rails --version "~> 5.0.0" --source "https://gems.example.com" --group "development"`

4. The following adds the `gem` entry to the Gemfile without installing the
   gem. You can install gems later via `bundle install`.

   `bundle add rails --skip-install`

5. You can assign the gem to more than one group.

   `bundle add rails --group "development, test"`

## SEE ALSO

[Gemfile(5)](https://bundler.io/man/gemfile.5.html),
[bundle-remove(1)](bundle-remove.1.html)
