bundle-doctor(1) -- Checks the bundle for common problems
=========================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`bundle doctor [diagnose]` [--quiet]
                           [--gemfile=GEMFILE]
                           [--ssl]<br>
`bundle doctor ssl` [--host=HOST]
                    [--tls-version=VERSION]
                    [--verify-mode=MODE]<br>
`bundle doctor` help [COMMAND]

## DESCRIPTION

You can diagnose common Bundler problems with this command such as checking gem environment or SSL/TLS issue.

## SUB-COMMANDS

### diagnose (default command)

Checks your Gemfile and gem environment for common problems. If issues
are detected, Bundler prints them and exits status 1. Otherwise,
Bundler prints a success message and exits status 0.

Examples of common problems caught include:

* Invalid Bundler settings
* Mismatched Ruby versions
* Mismatched platforms
* Uninstalled gems
* Missing dependencies

**OPTIONS**

* `--quiet`:
  Only output warnings and errors.

* `--gemfile=GEMFILE`:
  The location of the Gemfile(5) which Bundler should use. This defaults
  to a Gemfile(5) in the current working directory. In general, Bundler
  will assume that the location of the Gemfile(5) is also the project's
  root and will try to find `Gemfile.lock` and `vendor/cache` relative
  to this location.

* `--ssl`:
  Diagnose common SSL problems when connecting to https://rubygems.org.

  This flag runs the `bundle doctor ssl` subcommand with default values
  underneath.

### ssl

If you've experienced issues related to SSL certificates and/or TLS versions while connecting
to https://rubygems.org, this command can help troubleshoot common problems.
The diagnostic will perform a few checks such as:

* Verify the Ruby OpenSSL version installed on your system.
* Check the OpenSSL library version used for compilation.
* Ensure CA certificates are correctly setup on your machine.
* Open a TLS connection and verify the outcome.

**OPTIONS**

* `--host=HOST`:
  Perform the diagnostic on HOST. Defaults to `rubygems.org`.

* `--tls-version=VERSION`:
  Specify the TLS version when opening the connection to HOST.

  Accepted values are: `1.1` or `1.2`.

* `--verify-mode=MODE`:
  Specify the TLS verify mode when opening the connection to HOST.
  Defaults to `SSL_VERIFY_PEER`.

  Accepted values are: `CLIENT_ONCE`, `FAIL_IF_NO_PEER_CERT`, `NONE`, `PEER`.
