bundle-plugin(1) -- Manage Bundler plugins
==========================================

## SYNOPSIS

`bundle plugin` install PLUGINS [--source=SOURCE] [--version=VERSION]
                              [--git=GIT] [--branch=BRANCH|--ref=REF]
                              [--local-git=LOCAL_GIT]
                              [--path=PATH]<br>
`bundle plugin` uninstall PLUGINS [--all]<br>
`bundle plugin` list<br>
`bundle plugin` help [COMMAND]

## DESCRIPTION

You can install, uninstall, and list plugin(s) with this command to extend functionalities of Bundler.

## SUB-COMMANDS

### install

Install the given plugin(s).

For example, `bundle plugin install bundler-graph` will install bundler-graph
gem from globally configured sources (defaults to RubyGems.org). Note that the
global source specified in Gemfile is ignored.

**OPTIONS**

* `--source=SOURCE`:
  Install the plugin gem from a specific source, rather than from globally configured sources.

  Example: `bundle plugin install bundler-graph --source https://example.com`

* `--version=VERSION`:
  Specify a version of the plugin gem to install via `--version`.

  Example: `bundle plugin install bundler-graph --version 0.2.1`

* `--git=GIT`:
  Install the plugin gem from a Git repository. You can use standard Git URLs like:

  `ssh://[user@]host.xz[:port]/path/to/repo.git`<br>
  `http[s]://host.xz[:port]/path/to/repo.git`<br>
  `/path/to/repo`<br>
  `file:///path/to/repo`

  Example: `bundle plugin install bundler-graph --git https://github.com/rubygems/bundler-graph`

* `--branch=BRANCH`:
  When you specify `--git`, you can use `--branch`  to use.

* `--ref=REF`:
  When you specify `--git`, you can use `--ref` to specify any tag, or commit
  hash (revision) to use.

* `--path=PATH`:
  Install the plugin gem from a local path.

  Example: `bundle plugin install bundler-graph --path ../bundler-graph`

* `--local-git=LOCAL_GIT`:
  Install the plugin gem from a local Git repository.

  Example: `bundle plugin install bundler-graph --local-git ../bundler-graph`.

  This option is deprecated in favor of `--git`.

### uninstall

Uninstall the plugin(s) specified in PLUGINS.

**OPTIONS**

* `--all`:
  Uninstall all the installed plugins. If no plugin is installed, then it does nothing.

### list

List the installed plugins and available commands.

No options.

### help

Describe subcommands or one specific subcommand.

No options.

## SEE ALSO

* [How to write a Bundler plugin](https://bundler.io/guides/bundler_plugins.html)
