# AUTOGENERATED DEPENDENCIES START
continuation.o: $(RUBY_EXTCONF_H)
continuation.o: $(arch_hdrdir)/ruby/config.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/anyargs.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/char.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/double.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/fixnum.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/gid_t.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/int.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/intptr_t.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/long.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/long_long.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/mode_t.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/off_t.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/pid_t.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/short.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/size_t.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/st_data_t.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/arithmetic/uid_t.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/assume.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/alloc_size.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/artificial.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/cold.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/const.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/constexpr.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/deprecated.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/diagnose_if.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/enum_extensibility.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/error.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/flag_enum.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/forceinline.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/format.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/maybe_unused.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/noalias.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/nodiscard.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/noexcept.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/noinline.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/nonnull.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/noreturn.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/pure.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/restrict.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/returns_nonnull.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/warning.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/attr/weakref.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/cast.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/compiler_is.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/compiler_is/apple.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/compiler_is/clang.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/compiler_is/gcc.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/compiler_is/intel.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/compiler_is/msvc.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/compiler_is/sunpro.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/compiler_since.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/config.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/constant_p.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rarray.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rbasic.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rbignum.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rclass.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rdata.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rfile.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rhash.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/robject.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rregexp.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rstring.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rstruct.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/core/rtypeddata.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/ctype.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/dllexport.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/dosish.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/error.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/eval.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/event.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/fl_type.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/gc.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/glob.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/globals.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/has/attribute.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/has/builtin.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/has/c_attribute.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/has/cpp_attribute.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/has/declspec_attribute.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/has/extension.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/has/feature.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/has/warning.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/array.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/bignum.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/class.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/compar.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/complex.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/cont.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/dir.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/enum.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/enumerator.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/error.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/eval.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/file.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/gc.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/hash.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/io.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/load.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/marshal.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/numeric.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/object.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/parse.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/proc.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/process.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/random.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/range.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/rational.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/re.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/ruby.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/select.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/select/largesize.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/signal.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/sprintf.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/string.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/struct.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/thread.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/time.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/variable.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/intern/vm.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/interpreter.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/iterator.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/memory.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/method.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/module.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/newobj.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/rgengc.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/scan_args.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/special_consts.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/static_assert.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/stdalign.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/stdbool.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/symbol.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/token_paste.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/value.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/value_type.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/variable.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/warning_push.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/impl/xmalloc.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/assert.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/assume.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/attributes.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/bool.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/extern.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/gcc_version_since.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/inttypes.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/limits.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/long_long.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/r_cast.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/rmodule.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/stdalign.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/backward/2/stdarg.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/defines.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/intern.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/missing.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/ruby.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/st.h
continuation.o: $(hdrdir)/ruby/subst.h
continuation.o: continuation.c
# AUTOGENERATED DEPENDENCIES END
